README.md, before:

# codehelium 👾

Codehelium is a lightweight editor component that compiles, executes and returns the outputs of any user-written code via Pyodide/Emscripten/Webassembly.

It is currently only usable as a React component with **support for Python code editing/execution**.

Check out the [demo](https://dillondesilva.github.io/codehelium/) - it is quite "bloat-free" and **can also serve as a useful site for if you need to quickly hack up and test concepts/ideas!**

## Installation 🖥️

To get started with using codehelium in your React application run `npm i codehelium`, import the component and you're good to go!
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium'
...
<PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh" />
```
## More Examples 😎

### Obtaining Console Outputs from Parent Components
Oftentimes, you may desire to obtain the stdout or stderr from user-written code in codehelium editor components. For a given state variable in your parent component, you can pass the corresponding setter function via the `consoleOutputSetter` prop to utilise console outputs from user-written code in the PythonEditor component.
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function App() {
    const [consoleOutputs, setConsoleOutputs] = useState([]);

    useEffect(() => {
        console.log("Printing from App... Console output received");
        console.log(consoleOutputs);
    }, [consoleOutputs])

    return (
        <div>
            <PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh" 
            consoleOutputSetter={setConsoleOutputs} />
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;
```
### Using an External Pyodide Instance
By default, the `PythonEditor` component will initialise its own Pyodide instance with the indexURL set to [jsDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/). However if you have initialised Pyodide elsewhere in your application, you can pass this instance to the `PythonEditor` component by using the `pyodideInstance` prop. The following example demonstrates how to do so:
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium';
import { loadPyodide } from 'pyodide';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function App() {
    const [myPyodideInstance, setMyPyodideInstance] = useState(null);

    useEffect(() => {
        async function createPyodideInstance() {
            let pyodide = await loadPyodide({
            indexURL: window.location.href + "/pyodide"
            });
            
            setMyPyodideInstance(pyodide);
        }

        // Initialize pyodide instance in parent component
        createPyodideInstance();
    }, []);

    return (
        <div>
            <div className="w-screen h-screen grid place-content-center">
                <PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh"
                pyodideInstance={myPyodideInstance}/>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;
```
This is a **good practice** as it allows you to have full control of the Pyodide instance whilst also being able to leverage the component's capabilities. Consider using this when developing applications that use a [singleton model for Pyodide](https://adamemery.dev/articles/pyodide-react) functionality.
## Guide to Contributing 🫶
To get started with contributing, fork this repository and then run the following once you have cloned the forked repo:
```
npm install
npm start
```
Library components can then be changed by visiting `src/lib/`, with changes reflected in the development server (from running `npm start`). Once complete, send a PR (filled with basic details) to bring your changes into this repo!

## Additional Notes 📝

codehelium is great for applications such as:
- Educational tools requiring users to write code and get feedback
- Building quick and personalised, web-based editors for you to quickly access and test your ideas

Future work includes:
- Support importing external Python packages in the editor
- Ability to code in other languages
- Controlling editor themes and custom-styling

## Support this Project 💛
Starring this repo, creating issues and sending PRs with useful features/improvements are always appreciated and welcomed!

Commit message:

small README description, update of path for indexURL when no instance given.

README.md, after:

# codehelium 👾

Codehelium is a lightweight editor component that compiles, executes and returns the outputs of any user-written code via Pyodide/Emscripten/Webassembly.

It is currently only usable as a React component with **support for Python code editing/execution**.

Check out the [demo](https://dillondesilva.github.io/codehelium/) - it is quite "bloat-free" and **can also serve as a useful site for if you need to quickly hack up and test concepts/ideas!**

## Installation 🖥️

To get started with using codehelium in your React application run `npm i codehelium`, import the component and you're good to go!
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium'
...
<PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh" />
```
## More Examples 😎

### Obtaining Console Outputs from Parent Components
Oftentimes, you may desire to obtain the stdout or stderr from user-written code in codehelium editor components. For a given state variable in your parent component, you can pass the corresponding setter function via the `consoleOutputSetter` prop to utilise console outputs from user-written code in the PythonEditor component.
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function App() {
    const [consoleOutputs, setConsoleOutputs] = useState([]);

    useEffect(() => {
        console.log("Printing from App... Console output received");
        console.log(consoleOutputs);
    }, [consoleOutputs])

    return (
        <div>
            <PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh" 
            consoleOutputSetter={setConsoleOutputs} />
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;
```
### Using an External Pyodide Instance
By default, the `PythonEditor` component will initialise its own Pyodide instance with the indexURL set to [jsDelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/). However if you have initialised Pyodide elsewhere in your application, you can pass this instance to the `PythonEditor` component by using the `pyodideInstance` prop. The following example demonstrates how to do so:
```jsx
import PythonEditor from 'codehelium';
import { loadPyodide } from 'pyodide';
import { useEffect, useState } from 'react';

function App() {
    const [myPyodideInstance, setMyPyodideInstance] = useState(null);

    useEffect(() => {
        async function createPyodideInstance() {
            let pyodide = await loadPyodide({
            indexURL: window.location.href + "/pyodide"
            });
            
            setMyPyodideInstance(pyodide);
        }

        // Initialize pyodide instance in parent component
        createPyodideInstance();
    }, []);

    return (
        <div>
            <div className="w-screen h-screen grid place-content-center">
                <PythonEditor width="90vw" height="80vh"
                pyodideInstance={myPyodideInstance}/>
            </div>
        </div>
    );
}

export default App;
```
This is a **good practice** as it allows you to have full control of the Pyodide instance whilst also being able to leverage the component's capabilities. Consider using this when developing applications that use a [singleton model for Pyodide](https://adamemery.dev/articles/pyodide-react) functionality.

## Using Libraries

In order to import any libraries, the folder at the url specified at `indexURL` when creating the pyodide instance (using `loadPyodide`) must contain the required `.whl` files for each library you are using. In order to get all of the libraries that pyodide has to offer, you can use `indexURL='https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/pyodide/v0.23.4/full/'` (This is the default if no instance is given). 


## Guide to Contributing 🫶
To get started with contributing, fork this repository and then run the following once you have cloned the forked repo:
```
npm install
npm start
```
Library components can then be changed by visiting `src/lib/`, with changes reflected in the development server (from running `npm start`). Once complete, send a PR (filled with basic details) to bring your changes into this repo!

## Additional Notes 📝

codehelium is great for applications such as:
- Educational tools requiring users to write code and get feedback
- Building quick and personalised, web-based editors for you to quickly access and test your ideas

Future work includes:
- Support importing external Python packages in the editor
- Ability to code in other languages
- Controlling editor themes and custom-styling

## Support this Project 💛
Starring this repo, creating issues and sending PRs with useful features/improvements are always appreciated and welcomed!
